Before we start writing our first program I want to spend a minute or two talking to you about Python
2 and Python 3.
Now these are the two main versions of python and obviously Python 3 is the latest version.
So you might be thinking which version are we going to be using throughout the course.
Well the quick answer to that is both.
And by the end of the course we're going to be able to write programs in both Python 2 and Python 3.
The reason for this is and you probably hear this from a lot of programmers is if you don't program
properly then you're going to be able to write programs in any programming language.
All you have to do is spend some time reading the syntax and getting familiar with the way that you
write code for the language what you're going to already know the concepts and the way of how to think
about problem how to model it and solve it.
So write it in a different language.
It's not going to be a problem.
Therefore if you learn programming in Python 2 or in Python 3 then the version number is not going to
make a big difference to you because you're still using the same language.
You're either using a slightly new or a slightly older version.
Now you might be thinking why are we even talking about Python 2 if 3 is the latest version.
Well the answer is simple.
There is a huge number of programs that's already been written in Python too.
So if you ever wanted to use one of these programs in your program or if you ever wanted to read them
and modify them you're going to have to understand how Python works.
Also there is still a lot of libraries that only work on Python 2 and some of them have a Python 3 version
but the Python 3 is more buggy than Python 2.
So you might end up using Python to.
Another reason is a lot of Linux and Unix systems still come with Python to as the default Python interpreter.
So if you ever want to exploit these systems you're going to have to write programs in Python to.
Now don't get confused and don't worry about the two versions.
Like I said at the end of the day you're writing programs in the same programming language and the differences
are actually very small especially when it comes to things that were going to be doing in this course.
So they might be slight changes in the names of the libraries and the library calls or slight changes
in some of the statements.
So I'm actually going to be covering these changes as we go through of course.
And therefore by the end of the course we are going to be able to write programs and understand programs
written in both Python 2 and Python 3.
Now let's go ahead and start writing our first program now.
In most cases all you need is a text editor in order to write a program.
So now I'm in Cali Linux.
I'm going to go to leef pod which is a text editor that comes pre-installed with colonics and we can
start writing our Python programs straight away in here.
Now there are text editors or ideas that's designed for programming and we'll get into that in the next
lecture.
But for now I'm keeping everything as simple as possible and I'm actually going to write a very very
simple program that will only display a message on screen.
Now in the future we will not be writing useless programs like this one but this is just an introduction.
So I just want you to get an idea of what a program is and how to run it.
So in order to print something on screen in python we can use the print function so I can just do print.
That's the name of the function.
And then we can use two brackets and give it the message that we want to print between these two brackets.
Now since the message is going to be text we have to enclose this text between two quotation marks and
the message is just going to be hello world.
So very very simple.
We're calling a function a Python function that prints data on screen.
The function is called print and then we're giving it the text that we want to print in here.
Now this is done and you can actually run the file like this but it's actually better to include the
python shebang at the start of each python file you create the shebang is a directive that tells the
operating system how to handle this specific file.
So because this is a python file the Shabangu is going to be harsh followed by an escalation Mark followed
by you as our bin.
And and if you're writing a python to program you should type python.
If you're writing a Python 3 program you should type python 3.
So like I said this line is not mandatory but it's a common practice.
And it also allows to run this file as an executable.
So the system will automatically know that this is a python file.
Now what's done with this we can't save this so I'm going to go to File Save and I'm going to put this
in my root directory and I'm going to call this hello.
Why I'm going to click on Save and now if I go to my files you can see I have the file in here in my
home which is my root directory so I'm going to close this and I'm going to open my terminal to run
this file and the terminal opens on the root directory by default.
So if I do P.W. The You'll see already interviewed and if I do ls to list all the current files and
directories you can see I have loaded it in here now to run this file.
We have to first say Python and then specify the python file name that we want to run.
The reason for this is because as you can see in here the code is just simple text and the computer
does not understand this simple text.
So what we're doing in here is we're actually calling an interpreter a python interpreter and we're
passing this file to the interpreter.
You can think of the interpreter as a translator that can translate text from one language to another.
So in this case it's going to translate the program that we wrote in Python to machine language so that
the computer can understand this is actually why we also put this line here.
This line tells the system the location of the interpreter so that if someone tries to run this file
without specifying Python in front of it the system will know that this is a python interpreter and
pass this file to the interpreter so that it can convert it from Python code to machine code.
So you can think of the interpreter as a person that knows two languages.
For example it knows English and Spanish so you can talk to it in English and it will translate what
you say to Spanish.
So now if I hit enter you can see that my code is getting executed in here and I can see the message
that I specified in here be displayed on screen so that's perfect.
And if you actually want to run this in Python 3 you can just type python 3.
Hello.
Why.
And again you can see that the code getting executed exactly the same.
And this goes back to me when I was talking about Python 2 and 3 and I said there isn't a huge difference
between them.
So that's it for this lecture.
I just wanted to spend some time talking about Python 2 and 3.
And I also wanted to give you a basic understanding of what a program is and how to run it.
Some people think of a program as this complicated thing but all it is is simply a text file with some
text in it.
And when you run it you have to run it with the interpreter of the language.
Now I should also mention some languages such as C they would require you to compile the code before
running it.
So compiling the code will actually convert the text that you have in here into another file that the
computer can understand.
And then instead of running this file the source file you will run the file that the compiler produces
and will actually see how we can convert Python code.
Python source code into binary used that can run on any operating system.
But more on that later you don't need to worry about that right now.